here this word which I take up against
you a lamentation
Oh house of Israel the Virgin of Israel
has fallen
she will rise no more she lies forsaken
on her land there is no one to raise her
up for thus says the Lord God the city
that goes out by a thousand shall have a
hundred left and that which goes out by
a hundred shall have ten left to the
house of Israel for thus says the Lord
to the house of Israel seek me and live
but do not seek Bethel nor enter Gilgal
nor pass over to Beersheba for Gilgal
shall surely go into captivity and
Bethel shall come to nothing seek the
Lord and live lest he break out like
fire in the house of Joseph and devour
it with no one to quench it in Bethel
you who turned justice to wormwood and
lay righteousness to rest in the earth
he made the Pleiades and Orion he turns
the shadow of death into mourning and
makes the day dark as night he calls for
the waters of the sea and pours them out
on the face of the earth the Lord is his
name he reigns ruin upon the strong so
that fury comes upon the fortress they
hate the one who rebukes in the gate and
they abhor the one who speaks up rightly
there
because you tread down the poor and take
grain taxes from him though you have
built houses of Hume stone yet you shall
not dwell in them you have planted
Pleasant vineyards but you shall not
drink wine from them for I know your
manifold transgressions and your mighty
sins afflicting the just and taking
bribes diverting the poor from justice
at the gate
therefore the prudent keeps silent at
that time for it is an evil time seek
God and not evil that you may live so
the Lord God of hosts will be with you
as you have spoken hate evil love good
establish justice in the gate it may be
that the Lord God of hosts will be
gracious to the remnant of Joseph
therefore the Lord God of hosts the Lord
says this there shall be wailing in all
streets and they shall say in all the
highway
unless they shall call the farmer to
morning and skillful lament as to
wailing in all vineyards there shall be
wailing for I will pass through you woe
to you who desire the day of the Lord
for what good is the day of the Lord to
you it will be darkness and not light it
will be as though a man fled from a lion
and a bear metal or as though he went
into the house leaned his hand on the
wall and a serpent bit him is not the
day of the Lord
darkness and not light is it not very
done with no brightness in it I hate I
despise your feast days and I do not
savor your sacred assemblies though you
offer me burnt offerings and your grain
offerings I will not accept them nor
will I regard your fattened peace
offerings take away from me the noise of
your songs for I will not hear the
melody of your string instruments but
let justice run down like water and
righteousness like a mighty stream
did you offer me sacrifices and
offerings in the wilderness 40 years o
house of Israel you also carried sick
earth your king and kaien your idols the
star of your gods which you made for
selves therefore I will send you into
captivity beyond Damascus says the Lord
whose name it says the Lord whose name
is the God of hosts